File CKUAAA.TXT                                                     Jan 2000

			   C-KERMIT FILES FOR UNIX

  Copyright (C) 1985, 2000
    Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York.
    All rights reserved.  See the C-Kermit COPYING.TXT file or the
    copyright text in the ckcmai.c module for disclaimer and permissions.

All files for UNIX C-Kermit have Kermit Distribution names beginning with
'ck'.  Those particular to UNIX begin with 'cku'.  Those that UNIX C-Kermit
share in common with other C-Kermit implementations begin with 'ckc' or 'ckw'.
When retrieving these files via ftp from kermit.columbia.edu, a UNIX computer,
use only lowercase letters in filenames.  (Actually, many of the 'cku' files
are used on other platforms, too.)

All the files needed for UNIX C-Kermit are listed below, and are available
separately in the kermit/f directory.  They are also available in a compressed
tar archive in kermit/archives called ckuxxx.tar.Z, where xxx is the C-Kermit
edit number, for example cku195.tar.Z (and also .gz for gunzip).  Retrieve
this file to your UNIX system in binary mode.  Here is an example of how to
retrieve, unpack, and build:

  mkdir kermit
  cd kermit
  ftp kermit.columbia.edu
  Name: anonymous (or "ftp")
  Password: (supply your email address)
  ftp> cd kermit/archives
  ftp> binary (or "type binary")
  ftp> get cku195.tar.Z (or .gz)
  ftp> bye
  uncompress cku195.tar.Z (or gunzip cku195.tar.gz)
  tar xvf cku195.tar
  make xxx

where "xxx" is the appropriate makefile entry, for example "make linux".
Please read the comments at the top of the makefile for details.

Prebuilt binary executables for selected platforms are in kermit/bin, with
names starting with 'cku'.  See kermit/bin/READ.ME for further information.


DOCUMENTATION

  Frank da Cruz and Christine M. Gianone, "Using C-Kermit", Second Edition,
  Digital Press /  Butterworth-Heinemann, Woburn, MA, 1997, 622 pages,
  ISBN 1-55558-164-1.  Price: US $44.95.  Available in bookstores and
  computer stores, or order from Columbia University, phone 1-212-854-3703,
  MasterCard and Visa accepted.  Please purchase the documentation: it should
  answer most of your questions, and sales help to fund the Kermit Project.


UNIX C-KERMIT FILES:

COPYING.TXT - Copyright and permissions notice.

ckuaaa.txt  - This file.

ckuker.nr   - UNIX man page for C-Kermit, to be installed in the system's
              local man page directory.  Format via 'nroff -man'.

ckuker.cpp  - C-Preprocessor source for the ckuker.nr file.

The following files should be placed in a world-readable directory, such as
/usr/local/lib/kermit, so everybody can read and/or copy them:

ckermit.ini - Standard C-Kermit initialization file.  Rename to .kermrc
              and place in your home directory.  Or read ckuins.txt to learn
              how to set up a system-wide initialization file.

ckermod.ini - Sample C-Kermit customization file.  Rename to .mykermrc and
              place in your home directory.

ckermit.kdd - Sample dialing directory file.  Replace this with your own
              dialing directory in the same format, and rename it to .kdd.

ckermit.knd - Sample network directory file.  Replace this with your own
              dialing directory in the same format, and rename it to .knd.

ckermit.ksd - Sample services directory.  Replace this with your own services
              directory in the same format, and rename to .ksd.

ckermit2.txt- Updates to C-Kermit since the most recent edition of "Using
              C-Kermit" was published; documentation for new features.

ckcbwr.txt  - General C-Kermit "Beware file" - hints and tips, known bugs, etc.

ckubwr.txt  - UNIX-specific C-Kermit "Beware File".

ckedemo.ksc, ckevt.ksc, ckepage.ksc -
              Macro definitions used in "Using C-Kermit".

FILES FOR BUILDING UNIX C-KERMIT:

ckuins.txt  - UNIX C-Kermit installation instructions.

ckcplm.txt  - C-Kermit Program Logic Manual.

ckccfg.txt  - Documentation for configuration options.

makefile    - UNIX makefile for building C-Kermit from source code.  See
              ckuins.txt for details, and also read the comments at the top
              of the makefile.  This makefile has hundreds of entries in it;
              please be careful to pick the most appropriate one.  (NOTE: if
              you don't find a file called "makefile" then look for it under
              alternative names: "Makefile", "ckuker.mak", etc.

ckubs2.mak  - Makefile specifically for 2.10 and 2.11 BSD systems.  Read the
              comments in this file for more info.

ckpker.mk   - Makefile specifically for Plan 9.

C-KERMIT SOURCE FILES:

ckcdeb.h    - Header file common to all C-Kermit modules.
ckcasc.h    - Header file for ASCII character definitions.
ckcsig.h    - Header file for signal handling functions.
ckuver.h    - Header file for version heralds.

ckcmai.c    - Main program
ckclib.c    - Common library routines
ckclib.h    - Prototypes for common library routines

ckcuni.c    - Unicode support
ckcuni.h    - Definitions and prototypes for Unicode

ckufio.c    - UNIX (and OS/2) system-specific file i/o module for C-Kermit.
ckutio.c    - UNIX system-specific communications i/o module for C-Kermit.
ckusig.c    - UNIX signal handling functions.
ckucns.c    - Select-based CONNECT command for UNIX (preferred)
ckucon.c    - Fork-based CONNECT command for UNIX (only if no select())
ckupty.c    - Pseudoterminal support

ckcpro.w    - System-independent C-Kermit protocol module, written in 'wart',
              a lex-like preprocessor for C.
ckwart.c    - The 'wart' preprocessor.

ckcker.h    - Header file for Kermit protocol items.

ckcfns.c, ckcfn2.c, ckcfn3.c - System-independent Kermit protocol support
              routines.

ckuusr.c, ckuus2.c, ckuus3.c, ckuus4.c, ckuus5.c, ckuus6.c, ckuus7.c -
              User interface: interactive command processor.

ckuusy.c    - User interface: command-line option processor.

ckuusx.c    - Support functions shared by interactive-mode and command-line
              option processors.

ckuusr.h    - Header file for user interface.

ckucmd.c    - Command-parsing functions (keywords, filenames, numbers, etc).
ckucmd.h    - Header file for command-parsing functions.

ckuxla.c    - Character-set translation module.
ckcxla.h    - System-independent header file for character-set translation.
ckuxla.h    - UNIX-specific header file for character-set translation.

ckudia.c    - DIAL command processor.
ckuscr.c    - SCRIPT command processor.
ckcnet.c    - Network support module.
ckcnet.h    - Header file for network support module.

ckctel.c    - Telnet protocol module
ckctel.h    - Definitions and prototypes for Telnet protocol.

OTHER FILES:

These are not included in the tar.Z file.  FTP these separately from the
kermit/b directory if you need them.

ckc197.txt  - Program update history for edits 193-197.
ckc192.txt  - Program update history for edits 191-192.
ckc190.txt  - Program update history for edits 189-190.
ckc188.txt  - Program update history, edits 179-188.
ckc178.txt  - Program edit history, 5A edits through 178.
ckc04f.txt  - Program edit history, version 4F.
ckc04e.txt  - Program edit history, version 4E.

(End of file ckuaaa.txt)
